TracerPIN (modified)
====================

TracerPIN an Intel PIN tool for generating execution traces of a running process.
Support is limited to platforms supported by Intel PIN and TracerPIN has only been tested under
X86 and X86_64.

Installation
------------

TracerPIN requires the [Intel PIN framework](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/articles/tool/pin-a-binary-instrumentation-tool-downloads.html) to compile and run as well as a few packages.
This tool was developed with version *3.30, kit 98830*

One would need for x86 and x86_64 support:

```bash
sudo apt-get install --no-install-recommends wget make g++
sudo apt-get install --no-install-recommends libstdc++-4.9-dev libssl-dev
sudo dpkg --add-architecture i386
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install --no-install-recommends gcc-multilib g++-multilib
sudo apt-get install --no-install-recommends libstdc++-4.9-dev:i386 libssl-dev:i386
```
---

As well as installing the cli tool `dwgrep` from the [GitHub Repo](https://github.com/pmachata/dwgrep) and the installation steps in their [website](https://pmachata.github.io/dwgrep/#installation)

---

Then for Intel PIN, make sure the user has r/w access to the PIN installation and to ease the next steps define PIN_ROOT:

```bash
wget https://software.intel.com/sites/landingpage/pintool/downloads/pin-3.30-98830-g1d7b601b3-gcc-linux.tar.gz
tar xzf pin-3.30-98830-g1d7b601b3-gcc-linux.tar.gz
mv pin-3.30-98830-g1d7b601b3-gcc-linux /opt
export PIN_ROOT=/opt/pin-3.30-98830-g1d7b601b3-gcc-linux
echo -e "\nexport PIN_ROOT=/opt/pin-3.30-98830-g1d7b601b3-gcc-linux" >> ~/.bashrc
```

Now you're ready to compile TracerPIN and install it.

```bash
make
sudo make install
```

Usage
-----

Calling the tool without argument will provide some help:

```bash
TracerMod
```

### Trace format

Here's the basic command line you would use to trace the `ls` program and generate a human readable trace 
file called `ls.log`.

```bash
TracerMod -o ls.log -- ls
```

or to accept the default filename, just do

```bash
TracerMod ls
```

The text format is relatively easy to read. Each line start with a tag indicating the information 
type:

* `[W]` Memory write operation
* `[R]` Memory read operation
* `[B]` Basic block, if `-b 1`
* `[C]` Function call, if `-c 1` or `-C 1`
* `[I]` Instruction execution, if `-i 1`
* With the debug flag `-d 1`
    * `[*]` Arguments
    * `[-]` Information on base image and libraries
    * `[!]` Information on filtered elements
    * `[T]` Thread event

==Important note:==
> For optimization purposes the tool doesn't respect order for logs other than memory write and read logs, as they are buffered.
Meaning that if you include either `c/b/i/d` options you'll get either mixed traces or the traces generated by the previous options and the memory R/W's at the end. 

### Main usage of the tool


### Filtering information

```
By default are logged memory accesses
```

If you trace a large binary you might notice the trace size increase very fast and you might want 
to only trace specific address ranges or binaries. TracerPIN accepts several command line options
to filter the address range.

Option `-f` is used to limit tracing to a given range.

By default (`-f 1`) it's tracing all but system libraries.
It's possible to force to trace them too: `-f 0` or to trace only the main executable: `-f 2` or to
provide a range of addresses to trace: `-f 0x400000-0x410000`.
Option `-f` is about what to instrument when BBLs are getting parsed but it's also possible to give
indications when to instrument, e.g. when you want to capture only a specific iteration of a loop.
To do so, use option `-F 0x400000:0x410000`. This time the addresses serve as a start and stop indicators,
not as an address range, and it's possible to target a specific iteration with the option `-n`,
while by default all iterations will be recorded.


Troubleshooting
---------------

We noticed the following problem using PIN on IA32 binaries on Debian Stretch under a Linux kernel > 4.3:

```
A: Source/pin/vm_ia32_l/jit_region_ia32_linux.cpp: XlateSysCall: 33: Sysenter is supported on IA32 only and the expected location is inside Linux Gate

################################################################################
## STACK TRACE
################################################################################
etc
```

Strangely enough, running a Debian Jessie in a Docker with the same kernel > 4.3 works fine.  
So till the root cause of this issue is found, please either make sure to run a kernel <= 4.3 or to run from a Docker image with Debian Jessie.

Credits
-------

Based on code written by
* Arnaud Maillet for his [NSC2013 challenge writeup](http://kutioo.blogspot.be/2013/05/nosuchcon-2013-challenge-write-up-and.html)
* tracesurfer for [SSTIC2010](https://code.google.com/p/tartetatintools/)
* Carlos G. Prado for his [Brucon workshop](http://brundlelab.wordpress.com/2013/09/30/brucon-2013-workshop-slides/)
* source/tools/SimpleExamples/trace.cpp by Intel
* [Original TracerPIN](https://github.com/SideChannelMarvels/Tracer/tree/valgrind-3.23.0/TracerPIN) repo by doegox
